# pandas-challenge

Summary/analysis of the pandas challenge:

The first thing that I noticed when comparing the main summary table created (per_school_summary), with the highest/lowest performing schools by % overakl passing tables was that charter schools seemed to have the best statistical grade results compared to district schools. Aftrer doing a quick search of what a charter school is, it makes sense that their results would/should, generally speaking be in the higher range as they need to provide successful results in order to be able to stay a "charter" school and keep the benefits that allows them to create better teaching environments for students to succeed. With that said, I noticed the total buget with respect to the school type, and noticed that while charter schools are more successful in the reading and math subjects, district schools have a higher total school budget compared to the charter schools. Makes one wonder where the money's being allocated and whether it is being allocated properly as it clearly doesn't show that with more money generates higher succes rates. but then again with more students also means a bigger budget needed.

Additionally, when looking at the math/reading scores by each grade per school, specifically the additional statistical analysis I calculated. The results show that whatever the school is, the scores between teh 4 grade levels on average are very close to each other. This means that statistically speaking, there is no significant difference in the average scores for each grade per high school. That said, it looks like the reading subject had higher grades per grade than that of math due to the standard deviation being around 1 for all grade levels versus around 3 for all grades in the math subject. The bigger the standard deviation means the more values are plotted furthher away from the average, thus more possible outliers.
